---
layout: post
title: The Importance of Information Technology in Security
date: 2017-09-12 13:32:20 +0300
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: i-rest.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Holidays, Hawaii]
---
With so many transactions done online and so much information available online, it’s important to keep all of that safe. Information technology makes it possible for your online data to stay secure until accessed by the proper channels. Using passwords and encryption, information technology hides your personal digital data away, and the only way it can be accessed is by companies who have permission from you.

##Generalized Advantages and Disadvantages of Information Technology
Along with specific contributions to certain fields, information technology also has a few general advantages for society. However, with every advantage, there comes a disadvantage from another area. Below is a brief list of advantages and disadvantages as information technology grows.

##Advantages
With improvements in information technology, globalization has increased. The world is brought closer, and the world’s economy is quickly becoming a single interdependent system. Information can be shared quickly and easily from all over the glob, and barriers of linguistic and geographic boundaries can be torn down as people share ideas and information with each other.

Communication has become an easier, cheaper, and faster system with the help of information technology. Using the internet, people can speak to each other all over the world using video conferencing. Skype is one helpful application that allows users to communicate to other Skype users for free. You can also pay a small fee to call regular lines.

Social media is also another area of communication available because of information technology. It’s now easier than ever to share photos and information about your life with people you know all over the world. This draws some families closer to family members they don’t get to see as often.

Most mobile devices also offer some kind of face to face video communication as well. Using Skype or other programs like it, you can call other mobile Skype users for free to talk face to face. Apple also has Facetime, which allows iPhone users to talk face to face with other iPhone users.

Businesses have become more cost effective for both themselves and their consumers using information technology. By streamlining, businesses increase their productivity. This pays out to greater profits, which allows companies to offer better pay and less strenuous working conditions.

Along with making businesses more cost effective, information technology allows businesses to be within reach of consumers 24/7. If you decide you want to purchase a red sweater at five in the morning, you can easily log in on Target, Walmart, or any number of online clothing retailers to purchase that red sweater. You can also save money on purchases by buying items located in different countries.

Information technology has also created new jobs. Programmers, systems analyzers, hardware and software developers, and web designers all owe their jobs to information technology. Without such advances, these jobs would not exist.

Disadvantages
Unfortunately, along with the creation of new and interesting jobs, information technology has also led to a rise in unemployment. By streamlining the business process, job redundancies, downsizing, and outsourcing has occurred. Many low and middle level jobs have been turned to other countries, leaving more people unemployed.

Many people also credit information technology with a lack of job security. As new technology is released and jobs require more and more training, it’s important for employees to stay in a learning mode in order to keep their job. Changes in technology make it difficult for older employees to adapt as quickly as their younger peers.

Although information technology continuously works on making things more secure, there is still a great lack of privacy. Cell phones have been known to be intercepted, and email addresses can be hacked. Just recently, the Heartbleed Bug created a vulnerability in the OpenSSL cryptographic software library, and many people were concerned for their internet security and privacy.

It is also believed that along with opening a great communication window, information technology has begun to create a dominant culture. Many believe that the United States holds the most influence over how teenagers all over the world now act, dress, and behave simply because of what they can access online. English has slowly become the primary mode of communication for business and other communication areas.
